# Release 1.3.0
<sup>2026-03-07</sup>

## Features
- A major refactor has been done under the hood! Details:
    - Moved CAA to typescript, allowing better bug checking in code, as well as many other improvements which should enable increased development speed in the future
    - Created a new registration system, to make registering new macros much easier, and pave the way for moving CAA macros to the Cosmere RPG "Events" system in the future
    - Added more tooling to make rolls generated by CAA macros prettier, and display more usefully in the chat
- The way that effects from macros are applied has been changed, making it easier to see on the combat tracker and on tokens, and preventing it from displaying an action which does nothing in the "actions" tab of a character sheet
    - Now, instead of creating a new action on both the caster and the target, it creates a "cancel" action on the caster, and an active effect on the target.
- **Many automations (such as infusion expenditure, Enhance expending investiture, and the Regrowth infusion health restoration) now apply on an actor's turn starting or ending.** Because of this, **Cosmere Advanced Encounters** has been added as a dependency temporarily, because it overhauls the combat system to make **turn start/end hooks happen when you use the "Mark as Acted" button**.
    - Once the Cosmere RPG System has been updated to be more turn-hook-friendly, this dependency will be removed.
    - If the action display in the Combat tracker from CAE bothers you in the mean time, please let Posadist-Revolution know; she might try to bump up the priority of adding a setting to CAE to remove the action display entirely.


## New ways to use macros
### Turn Start/End effects
- To more closely match RAW, many automations now apply at the start or the end of an actor's turn. These will automatically apply whenever the "Mark as Active" button on the Combat tracker is clicked.
### Surge Infusions
- **Self infusions:**
    - When you infuse yourself with a surge, you will expend the investiture used to activate the item, and a new Active Effect will be added to your character. This active effect is what is used to enable the behavior of the infusion.
    - On the start of your character's turn, the self-infusion will automatically expend one investiture for your character. If the character has 0 investiture remaining, the infusion Active Effect will automatically remove itself from your character.
        - Future work will add the ability to prompt the character's owner to determine if the user *wants* to expend investiture to continue the effect, but for now it's assumed that the effect will continue.
- **Target actor infusions:**
    - When you infuse a target with a surge, you will now get a prompt for "How much investiture you'd like to infuse". That prompt has a slider which goes from 1 at the minimum, to your current investiture value at the maximum. When you select "confirm", the prompt will subtract that much investiture from the caster.
        - Unfortunately, it does not display numbers for an easier way to read it at the moment, but each step represents infusing 1 more investiture than the previous step.
    - That infusion will then create an Active Effect on the target, which applies the effects of the infusion to the target. It will also create a "Cancel" action on the caster, which if used will remove the effect from the target.
    - That active effect will track how much investiture is remaining on the infusion. It will automatically subtract from itself on the start of the caster's turn, and if it runs out of investiture, remove itself from the target and the "cancel" item from the caster.
- **"When you have 1 or more investiture" infusions:**
    - If you have a talent which enables self-infusion of a surge while you have 1 or more investiture, anytime your character's investiture value increases from 0, that surge's Active Effect will be automatically applied. If your investiture then drops to 0 again, that surge's Active Effect will be automatically removed.

## Macro Additions
### Abrasion
- The effects of infusing yourself with abrasion are now almost fully featured. Details:
    - Infusing yourself with Abrasion grants the "Skate" action, which costs 2 focus, and contains the text for "Skate" from the Stormlight Handbook
    - The "Frictionless Motion" talent adds a +10ft bonus to your movement speed while applied
    - The "Smooth Operator" talent enables automatic self-infusion while you have investiture, and reduces the focus cost of the "Skate" action by 1

## Macro Changes
### Common Stormlight actions
- Breathe Stormlight
    - Automatic sphere dunning is now functional, and respects the setting to enable/disable it. It will be very compatible with the Cosmere Useful Macros module's "Dun/infuse spheres" macros, as it essentially uses the same code!
    - Note that if you are using sphere dunning tracking, the system event on the "Breathe Stormlight" item will always restore an actor's investiture to max, even if they don't have enough spheres. This can be fixed by simply removing that event from the item.
- Enhance
    - At the end of your turn, if Enhance is active, and your character doesn't have a completed "Speak the Second Ideal" goal, it will expend investiture. If you don't have investiture to extend the effect, it will automatically cancel itself.

### Gravitation
- The effects of infusing yourself with Gravitation are now almost fully featured. Details:
    - Infusing yourself with Gravitation gives you a fly speed equal to your Gravitation rate
    - This Gravitation rate is 25 by default, and becomes 40 if you have the "Flying Ace" talent
    - The "Master of the Skies" talent enables automatic self-infusion while you have investiture
- The effects of infusing allies with Gravitation are more featured. Details:
    - Infusing a friendly target with Gravitation also grants them a fly speed equal to your Gravitation rate

### Progression
- The effects of infusing a character with Regrowth now respect Regrowth talents. Details:
    - Infusing a target character with Regrowth now grants the "Character Regrowth" effect to that target
    - When that character's turn starts, a roll will automatically happen in the chat, which rolls based on the Caster's Progression die. That roll will automatically be added to their health value.
    - When the caster's turn starts, investiture will automatically be expended from all "Character Regrowth" infusions they have active.
    - The result of the health regeneration roll now respects the "Reliable Progression" talent, meaning that if you have that talent and roll below the number of ranks you have in Progression, it will automatically adjust the result up to be equal to your ranks in Progression.
    - The result of the health regeneration roll now respects the "Swift Regeneration" talent, meaning that if you have that talent, the regeneration roll gets a bonus equal to your progression modifier.
    - The effect now respects the "Extended Regrowth" talent, meaning that when you would expend investiture from an infusion on the start of your turn, you instead only expend investiture on every n turns, where n = your ranks in Progression.

### Recover
- Using the "Recover" action now rolls your character's recovery die, and then has different behavior depending on the character's current resource values and the roll result.
    - If the recovery die result is greater than the actor's missing health and missing focus added together, it will simply max out both.
    - If the actor's Health is already at max, the full roll result will be added to Focus.
    - If the actor's Focus is already at max, the full roll result will be added to Health.
    - If none of these are true, we will display the new Recover prompt.
- A new prompt has been created which displays whenever you need to choose how to distribute your recovery die roll between health and focus.
    - When the prompt pops up, you will see your current health and focus values, your max health and focus values, and how many "points" you have to spend based on your Recovery die roll.
    - You can use the + and - buttons to spend those points to recover health or focus.
    - Once you have spent all your available points, clicking the "Submit" button will restore those values to your character.

## Fixes
### Division
- Using the Division action on a character now makes the attack roll and posts it to the chat using the System's rollAttack behavior, making it line up much more nicely with the System's other existing attacks.
- Using the Division action on a character no longer fails if you don't have a Target selected
- Division now correctly uses the "Intellect" attribute by default

### Exhausted condition
- Fixed Exhausted incorrectly applying to rolls if added to a token instead of an actor